Rational Choice Deterrence Theories
-----------------------------------

Week 4

Do people really weigh all of their options before preforming a specific
action? I would like to think so, but it seems that sometimes situations
limit our ability to do so. Specifically in terms of crime, outside
forces outside of our control do not let us analyze all of our options.

Personally I do not commit serious crimes, (crimes of than speeding),
because I am fearful that such acts will lead to convictions and ruin my
ability for success in the future among other reasons. I am also fearful of going to jail.
It is portrayed in the media as place of violence, gangs, and sexual
dominance. Whether this is true or not, I would rather never find out
from personal experience.

However it seems that these fears I have are not emphasized or
recognized by some criminals. Why do they not have the same fears?
Perhaps their rational choice is to commit this crime to achieve their
goals out weighs the potential consequences. 

I suppose by the low chance of getting caught for a particular crime
would allow the action to be rank more positively in my TRDM process. In
the paper by Paternoster, Pogarsky and Zimmerman, they discuss a
person' rational thinking is a matter of degree. They explain that
"different people have different abilities to engage in ration decision
making or TRDM at different times." This could explain a criminal's
though process who is stealing valuables or money to help support their
family. If they were not supporting their family they wouldn't steal.
But when they are stealing for their family, their TRDM allows them to
rationalize those actions.

Rational Choice Theory upon initial inspection, appears to target the
individual, but it becomes a more interesting theory when the
environment limits the choices the individual has. I am always torn on
the argument of nature versus nurture but I like to think both have a
role in the decisions people make. A particular environment will make
most people hostile but some might break before others because of
certain traits cause this to happen. 

Deterrence is a way to affect people's TRDM process or how they come to
rationalize a particular action. By having the overhanging idea of
deterrence whether it be incarceration, shaming, or other punishment
these sanctions are intended to deter people from committing a
particular action.


