Rand & Rennison Accounting for NCVS & UCR Differences
-----------------------------------------------------

Week 1

The UCR and NCVS are two sources of crime data. Living in relatively low
crime area, my family and I have never been selected for the NCVS
survey so I do not have any personal experience with NCVS surveys. 

The differences between the two data sources are similar and different
in certain areas. I find it interesting that UCR data only counts the
most serious crime, but I can see its reasoning. Obviously the police
would focus on a conviction for a murder rather than the breaking and
entering charge the suspect committed during the murder. 

NCVS data relies on the honesty in the survey respondents. I know if I
was victim of abuse and the abuser was present in the household, I would
not report this in my victimization report. NCVS attempts to find a
representative sample of the entire country, therefore there exists a
large potential for sampling error.

If I was looking for the most accurate data, I would use the UCR reports
because they are a compilation of all police precincts in the US. With
electronic means more the data is available and the accuracy of the data
is increased.

UCR and NCVS use different methods and measure different aspects of
crime. At first I believed that these two data sources were competing to
show the same results. But after reading this article and learning more
about the two, I know they are both attempting to show the big picture
of crime symbiotically. This explains why the two sources will differ in
crime rate estimates. Using the Apple and Oranges metaphor, UCR and NCVS
are two different things that cannot be compared as the same type of
object. Thus we must look at each one with its own perspective
independent of the other.

I am confused on why we believe that NCVS can really be representative
for our entire country when it comes to crimes because only around
100,000 people are surveyed. We have over 300 million people. Even if we
achieve a 'representative' sample there can still be a large number of
discrepancies. 

I believe in the next few decades, along with the development of smart
phones, computers, and larger networks we will be able to achieve a real
time crime profile rather than relying on older methods such as the
NCVS.
Racial Descrimination of Disproportionate Offending
---------------------------------------------------

Week 2

Racial discrimination is very prevalent. If not actual discrimination is
occurring, then the perception of it certainly is. Growing up any black
person I talked to always had some paranoid thought that cops/law
enforcement were out to get them. Perhaps this attitude led to behavior
that would attract more cops. The idea "yeah come and get me!" and the
thought of I am going to be suspected of a crime anyways might as well
commit a few. This is certainly not limited to the black community but
seems to arise in minority groups around the world. 

Similar to what we spoke of in class that the southern region of the USA is
historically more violent, I believe where I grew up, the black
communities had a much more belief in family pride and protection than
the predominately white neighborhoods I grew up in. Certain 
neighborhoods would rival against each other due to retaliation
and family pride.

My personal accounts are referring to the gray areas of the justice
system before any courts become involved. Like Blumstein says, "The U.S.
displays distressingly high rates of [Black incarceration]....This is
not so much due to racial discrimination, but to other factors outside
of the criminal justice system. Most experts agree there is no longer
any flat out racial discrimination in courts anymore or very very
little. 

The debate of over representation is interesting because should groups
arrest and incarceration rates be proportional? What if one group is
extremely violent while the others are all pacifists? I do not think
this point is a strong one for arguing racial discrimination exists
because there are many counter examples that prove this theory wrong
like the one I proposed above.

I can also relate to the disproportional pull overs on black men. I know
lots of black teens/men who refuse to drive vehicles because of the
chances of them being pulled over an harassed is much greater. 

I am a white male. I do not have any first hand experiences with police
brutality. Thus I am not sure if the racial profiling is as high as it
was 15 years ago.

From the data in the article, I can easily conclude that blacks are
targeted because thier involvement in crime is higher. Like any casino
game wouldn't you put your money on the most likely outcome?

 Propensity Theory
-----------------------

Week 3

What is a career criminal? Most career criminals develop at a young age
and some people even believe that the criminal is born into a life a
crime. *Propensity* is an innate inclination or tendency. Supporters of
propensity theory believe that career criminals are more inclined to
preform criminal acts than *normal*. This inclination can be caused for
a variety of reasons, but most supporters lean towards the consequences
of the psychopathic mind.

Without conscience of remorse there are no negative feelings about ones
actions. I feel that killing or hurting someone and not feeling bad about
it all impossible. Many professors like the psychology behind crime but
I myself prefer the thought of crime as a life style.

Yes, it might take a certain brain to justify the actions of a criminal
lifestyle, but all in all career criminals exhibit a habitual set of
behaviors involving crime to support themselves and families and provide
entertainment.

I personally know some career criminals and they are very intelligent,
resourceful, and ever adapting. The few I know have only been caught a
few times each. They are involved in burglaries, drug dealings and
prostitution among other crimes but are non-violent people. I do not 
believe them to be psychopaths but very happy with their criminal 
lifestyles. They began their lives of crime in their teenage years and I
would imagine will continue for the rest of their lives.

Gottfredson and Hirschi oversell the age crime curve and the
universality with which offenders discontinue their offending careers.
I am sure their are career criminals who *grow out* of their crime days
and become less violent. For some that I know, the crime tax of their
industry is ever increasing and the profits grow and grow from their
illegal trade. I see these individuals working the same crime jobs into
their retirement and never stopping. Perhaps the criminals have become
wise to law enforcement tactics and reduced their risks of being caught.

I think this is why there exists a steeper drop off in the crime age
curve. Propensity theory is a theory I support because for what ever
reasons people differ in their levels of propensity to commit crimes. 

###Trait Theory

The second topic is trait theory. One passage from *Control Theories of
Crime and Deliquency* I found somewhat confusing. It reads, "The
diagnostic between psychopathy and self-control is alarming, and both
constructs denote a generally problematic disposition that does not lead
to happy endings". How do we know 100% that if one doesn't follow a life
plan or is unresponsive to relationships that they will have criminal
tendencies. The idea of a psychopath always resulting in a life of crime
seems naive. What if a psychopath used her abilities of to build a large
business because she was able to manipulate the right people? I suppose
this type of person might not meet the true definition of a psychopath
but I believe it does.


Rational Choice Deterrence Theories
-----------------------------------

Week 4

Do people really weigh all of their options before preforming a specific
action? I would like to think so, but it seems that sometimes situations
limit our ability to do so. Specifically in terms of crime, outside
forces outside of our control do not let us analyze all of our options.

Personally I do not commit serious crimes, (crimes of than speeding),
because I am fearful that such acts will lead to convictions and ruin my
ability for success in the future among other reasons. I am also fearful of going to jail.
It is portrayed in the media as place of violence, gangs, and sexual
dominance. Whether this is true or not, I would rather never find out
from personal experience.

However it seems that these fears I have are not emphasized or
recognized by some criminals. Why do they not have the same fears?
Perhaps their rational choice is to commit this crime to achieve their
goals out weighs the potential consequences. 

I suppose by the low chance of getting caught for a particular crime
would allow the action to be rank more positively in my TRDM process. In
the paper by Paternoster, Pogarsky and Zimmerman, they discuss a
person' rational thinking is a matter of degree. They explain that
"different people have different abilities to engage in ration decision
making or TRDM at different times." This could explain a criminal's
though process who is stealing valuables or money to help support their
family. If they were not supporting their family they wouldn't steal.
But when they are stealing for their family, their TRDM allows them to
rationalize those actions.

Rational Choice Theory upon initial inspection, appears to target the
individual, but it becomes a more interesting theory when the
environment limits the choices the individual has. I am always torn on
the argument of nature versus nurture but I like to think both have a
role in the decisions people make. A particular environment will make
most people hostile but some might break before others because of
certain traits cause this to happen. 

Deterrence is a way to affect people's TRDM process or how they come to
rationalize a particular action. By having the overhanging idea of
deterrence whether it be incarceration, shaming, or other punishment
these sanctions are intended to deter people from committing a
particular action.


Social Control Theory & Self-Control Theory
-------------------------------------------

Week 5

Bill McCarthy and Teresa Casey's article "Love, Sex, and Crime:
Adolescent Romantic Relationships and Offending" discusses the idea of
teenage romantic relationships having negative consequences for the
criminal life of the teen. 

I agree that relationships can lead to stress,
disappointed, anger, as well as every other emotion in the book. This
article was trying to justify that teenage relationships share much with
that of adult relationships. I personally don't think they needed to
make this distinction because people regardless of age are in different
stages of their relationship history.

At first one could argue that sex would make people happier and less
depressed. Yes, they physical/biological act of intercourse releases
dopamine, oxytocin, and other endorphins, but the labels of being a
'slut' or a 'player' or the jealousy or anger that results is not
healthy. On numerous occasions males would fight in my high school over
a girl. We are animals so it seems only natural to fight for females.

Social Control is interesting medium because of the community and the
variables it has to play with. The agent of social control can emphasize
certain actions as stigmatizing and provide labels accordingly; such as
slut, player, etc.

Self Control takes the 'blame' to the individual and attempts to explain
the cause of crime through an individual's lack of self control. Pratt
and Cullen discuss gratification and delaying this feeling is what
contributes to high self control.

*"He who makes a beast of himself gets rid of the pain of being a
man."*
-- Dr. Samuel Johnson

Being a fan of HST and a Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas fan boy, I have
heard this quote by Dr. Johnson many times. At different points in my
life it meant many things to me. Looking at this quote today I see it
relates greatly to a mans ability to delay gratification and indulgences
to remain a good man and not a deviant beast. The context of this quote
is drinking and the depression that often becomes a man indulging in
drink. This quote tells us that its easier to be the deviant beast than
the upstanding citizen because it is difficult to resist temptations.
Although we are animals, humans attempt to divide themselves from their
inner beasts and use high levels of self control to lock the beast away. 
Differential Association and Social Learning
--------------------------------------------

Week 6

Both of the articles focus around peers and what kind of influence the
peers might have.

Mark Warr and Mark Stafford focus on the influence of Delinquent peers.
They start the article admitting that by having delinquent friends will
lead to delinquent behavior. I agree that "to Sutherland, then, the
social transmission of delinquency occurs specifically through the
dissemination or transference of attitudes about such conduct through
peer networks" because a person, most of the time, must believe in the
actions they are doing for a long term deviance period to occur. Just
because a child has deviant friends doesn't mean that the child will
experience long term periods of deviance. It could be argued that the
child will most likely try a few deviant acts with said friends, but
unless a transmission of attitudes occurred, the child would not
continue the deviant behavior. 

Haynie and Osgood 'reconsidered' Peers and Delinquency and asked the
general question How do Peers Matter? I particularly am drawn to the
'Peers as a Source of Opportunity for Delinquency' section of this
article. I agree and can personally attest to the fact that peers aid in
the opportunity for delinquency. Whether providing marijuana for the
rest of the group to smoke or helping plan a burglary, peers easily give
each other the opportunities necessary. I can recall (sort of) many
times hanging out at the bus stop after the bus had drop us off and
passing the bowl around and smoking. I wasn't a big smoker and never had
any drugs of my own and probably would have never done it had it been
for my peers providing me the opportunity.

In general, interactions with people have influence in your decision
making. Teenagers are a great case study for this type of peer
interactions because their minds are still mold-able and full of
surprises.  

I believe the same argument can be made that peers can provide positive
opportunities to each other as well. Teenagers especially want to be
popular and one of the cool kids. If the cool kids are eating healthy
and exercising then the other peers will follow suit. Likewise, if the
peers are into deviant behaviors, the peers will follow.

Fear of Crime Disorder Broken Windows
-------------------------------------

Week 7

The fear of crime is an interesting variable in the amount of crime
that is actually committed. One of my favorite sayings is that
perception is reality. Anything we perceive to be true is in our minds
true, even if it does not agree with the consensus. An example would be
if everyone in the United States awoke tomorrow morning believing that our
economy was back on track and spent and made decisions like it was, the
economy would most likely behave accordingly.

This same idea applies to crime. If everyone wakes up tomorrow believing
that there exists mass amount of crime in their community, people will
act like this is true. Policing would increase, paranoia flourishes, and
crime might actually increase depending on the type of people in the
community.

One way that 'everyone' might get this idea is from the media. The media
has a vast influence on people that is uncanny to any other mediums of
news transfer. I suppose the images and sounds are highly attention
grabbing and captivating. 

Broken window policing can increase the fear of crime. Police presence
in general makes people suspicious. I know when I see three or more
state troopers pulling over a car(s), I immediately think that this
person(s) must be involved with drug trafficking. 

When police use broken window policing, the little crimes and disorders
are taken care of. But is this worth the increase in the fear of crime?

In software development, I use the same idea of broken window policing.
The reasoning for this policy is if a piece of code has a hole in it and
it is not fixed, it will cause entropy to the rest of the software by
its unstable or dangerous implementation. By addressing and fixing these
problems while they are in a incubating state and haven't affected other
modules in the program. 

However, if I am broken window policing my code, if I find many
offenders, I will become suspicious that there are larger problems that
have already slipped through the cracks.
The Paradox of Social Organization
----------------------------------

Week 8

Neighborhood crime is an interesting topic because the social
organization and social structure can sometimes facilitate crime and
make it worth while to the offender to invoke these crimes.

The collective efficacy in a crime stricken neighborhood is very low in
my opinion. Typically where gangs exist or mob mentalities are in play,
neighbors are highly unlikely to stick their necks out for a fellow
neighbor if they are getting jump in the street. This study took place
in Chicago where a lot of neighborhoods are crime stricken.

I find interesting Whyte's 1937 classic account of an Itailian American
community in Boston showed that active/dense social ties and
neighborhood attachment promotes the regulation of local crime. I would
think that close neighborhood ties would led to peace and little crime
for said neighborhood. Wilson adds to this to say in low social control
neighborhoods, networks serve to disseminate potentially detrimental
behavioral orientations. Wilson discusses, how children are at a
disadvantage because the "social interaction among neighbors tends to be
confined to those whose skills, styles, orientations, and habits are not
as conducive to promoting positive social outcomes."

I suppose this makes sense. If you live in neighborhood where the Adults
are ex-felons, criminals, and just bad people, the children in the
neighborhood who make bonds with these people, their neighbors, are
likely to fall into the same patterns of crime and bad behavior.

Cultural transmission works well in favor of crime for network density
areas where attitudes tolerating deviance are shared.

I can definitely relate to the story of the woman who did not call the
police on the boy from Groveland because she knew the boys mother.
Growing up a neighborhood kid would do something stupid but rather than
calling the police a parent would contact the 'offenders' parent and
handle it that way. In some instances the kid learned and did not
offend anymore. There were a few kids in my neighborhood that perhaps
if the cops punished them they would not be in jail today.

Luckily I lived in a neighborhood growing up that had a lot of positive
influences. We had a large range of people including newly weds to older
retired couples. There were children living in the neighborhood from
just born to 25+ and for the most part everyone was a great influence.
Thus our neighborhood had a positive cultural transmission that did not
promote deviant behavior.


Anomie Strain Theory
--------------------

Week 9

Anomie strain theory points to the individual as causes of crime. In
particular it nails down the cause as the individual's pathology.

Being a William and Mary Student I have faced the road blocks and
overcame them so far. However I have a friend who went a different path
to go around the same road blocks I encountered.

My friend, we'll call him Larry, and I were friends since middle school.
We got into trouble together throughout high school, but senior year we
finally got our act together. We took the advance classes and studied
together and both resulted with all A's that year. Larry and I went on
to attend a local community college where we both entered the Comp Sci
program. We challenged each other for the first year and we both had 4.0
GPA. After the first year Larry had run out of money for school. He
comes from a lower income family and could have easily applied for
scholarships/grants to get help for school. He didn't want to take
anyones charity so he made the money for himself by dealing drugs. At
first it was just to help pay for school, but eventually greed got the
best of him. I continued on the plan Larry and I had set out our first
year at community college, that is to earn bachelor's degrees in comp
sci from William and Mary. Larry dropped out of community college to
pursue his career as a criminal.

He was fairly successful in the local drug trade and stealing items of
value such as GPS, laptops, and other electronics. To my knowledge he
has not been caught for any serious crimes except for possession
charges. 

I know Larry and I both want monetary success. I could have easily
gratified myself in the drug trade with Larry but I chose a different
path. We faced similar roadblocks and hurdles but in the end our paths
diverged.

I believe the biggest reasons for the divergent paths is Larry and I's
different social structure. Larry did not have the best home life. His
parents do drugs and also are involved in some light criminal acts. My family is
involved in the community and well educated.

This is a good example of what Merton believes, "...Merton argued that the 
system of stratification in the United States is  a source of both social
and income inequality." Larry simply innovated in a deviant way to
achieve his American Dream.

One section I found interesting was the "Personal Traits of Conditioning
Variables". I find it intriguing that we can lump human traits into a
master set of variables or a top 5. Negative emotionality is most most
relevant to GST. I feel that negative emotionality is more of a gateway
that allows the other traits to overtake the person. That said I believe
that constraint should be the 'master variable'. 

I feel that the future with strain theory will highly rely on
advancements in computing and biology, particularly high performance
cluster computing and the human genome project. Rather than these 5
master traits, which are most likely caused by specific genes and
environmental factors, we will be able to analyze people and better
predict their traits and their likeness to commit crimes.
Shifting Approaches to Punishment Control of Crime
--------------------------------------------------

Week 10

America loves the death penalty. Growing up in Virginia, I observed a
competition like environment for how many convicts were executed. The
main competition was Texas and Virginia is the runner up. 

These articles investigated the alternatives to corporal punishment,
incarceration, and the reactions there of.

One alternative to incarceration, at least first time offending youths,
is family group conferencing. FGC helps youths fight Deviance theory and
helps them realize the harm they have caused their victims. Growing up I
had peers in public schools who had commited minor crimes and went to
counseling rather than a direct route to a trial. Personally I think
this route helped prevent a majority of them steer to the right path. It
gave them the ability to not suffer 'labeling' by a conviction. 

FGR is just one way the punishment control can shift. I believe for non
hardened criminals, a different approach needs to be taken. Similar to
Europe, the U.S. needs to not treat simple drug charges as if the person
has committed murder or another violent crime. 

It is interesting to reflect back on the first weeks of class and think
about the self reporting surveys. Those surveys concluded that everyone
does something wrong or illegal big or small in their lifetime at least
once. Are all of those actions worthy of incarceration or capital
punishment?

I find David Garland's The Problem of the Body in Modern State Punishment
a highly interesting because the treatment of prisoners is controversial
and question of human rights in some cases. Which rights should be
removed during imprisonment? Which rights should be removed/ stay
removed after imprisonment. If I were to become a prisoner, I would
prefer that some of my rights be removed during imprisonment, but none
of my human rights. I agree that I should live without luxury but I
should still be treated like a human with food and water. Prison is a
way to punish a human for the wrong doing they have done. I do not feel
that this punishment needs to extend past the sentence they have
received. While in prison, a person's body should not be tortured,
filled with disease and sickness, or assaulted. The confinement from
society is punishment enough I believe.

In Television shows you hear of prisoners requesting to be in a certain
prison either because they want a lower security prison or their rival
gang is not there. Whatever the reason, this show us there is disparity
in prisons around the country. The article talks about Martha Stewart
and her adventure at Camp Cupcake. Sounds like a real hard place?

Besides the variations in incarceration locations, another large aspect
is healthcare in prisons. Should prisoners have 'free' healthcare? Do we
want to have our taxes paying for prisoners to have healthcare when
people outside the incarceration population do not? It seems unfair that
prisoners are treated so well we people on the outside live in worse
conditions.

I am of the opinion that conditions should be equally bad in prisons
throughout the country. The people there are being punished. However I
believe that only really bad people should be there. Nobody who commits
a victimless crime should go to prison.
