Shifting Approaches to Punishment Control of Crime
--------------------------------------------------

Week 10

America loves the death penalty. Growing up in Virginia, I observed a
competition like environment for how many convicts were executed. The
main competition was Texas and Virginia is the runner up. 

These articles investigated the alternatives to corporal punishment,
incarceration, and the reactions there of.

One alternative to incarceration, at least first time offending youths,
is family group conferencing. FGC helps youths fight Deviance theory and
helps them realize the harm they have caused their victims. Growing up I
had peers in public schools who had commited minor crimes and went to
counseling rather than a direct route to a trial. Personally I think
this route helped prevent a majority of them steer to the right path. It
gave them the ability to not suffer 'labeling' by a conviction. 

FGR is just one way the punishment control can shift. I believe for non
hardened criminals, a different approach needs to be taken. Similar to
Europe, the U.S. needs to not treat simple drug charges as if the person
has committed murder or another violent crime. 

It is interesting to reflect back on the first weeks of class and think
about the self reporting surveys. Those surveys concluded that everyone
does something wrong or illegal big or small in their lifetime at least
once. Are all of those actions worthy of incarceration or capital
punishment?

I find David Garland's The Problem of the Body in Modern State Punishment
a highly interesting because the treatment of prisoners is controversial
and question of human rights in some cases. Which rights should be
removed during imprisonment? Which rights should be removed/ stay
removed after imprisonment. If I were to become a prisoner, I would
prefer that some of my rights be removed during imprisonment, but none
of my human rights. I agree that I should live without luxury but I
should still be treated like a human with food and water. Prison is a
way to punish a human for the wrong doing they have done. I do not feel
that this punishment needs to extend past the sentence they have
received. While in prison, a person's body should not be tortured,
filled with disease and sickness, or assaulted. The confinement from
society is punishment enough I believe.

In Television shows you hear of prisoners requesting to be in a certain
prison either because they want a lower security prison or their rival
gang is not there. Whatever the reason, this show us there is disparity
in prisons around the country. The article talks about Martha Stewart
and her adventure at Camp Cupcake. Sounds like a real hard place?

Besides the variations in incarceration locations, another large aspect
is healthcare in prisons. Should prisoners have 'free' healthcare? Do we
want to have our taxes paying for prisoners to have healthcare when
people outside the incarceration population do not? It seems unfair that
prisoners are treated so well we people on the outside live in worse
conditions.

I am of the opinion that conditions should be equally bad in prisons
throughout the country. The people there are being punished. However I
believe that only really bad people should be there. Nobody who commits
a victimless crime should go to prison.
