 Propensity Theory
-----------------------

Week 3

What is a career criminal? Most career criminals develop at a young age
and some people even believe that the criminal is born into a life a
crime. *Propensity* is an innate inclination or tendency. Supporters of
propensity theory believe that career criminals are more inclined to
preform criminal acts than *normal*. This inclination can be caused for
a variety of reasons, but most supporters lean towards the consequences
of the psychopathic mind.

Without conscience of remorse there are no negative feelings about ones
actions. I feel that killing or hurting someone and not feeling bad about
it all impossible. Many professors like the psychology behind crime but
I myself prefer the thought of crime as a life style.

Yes, it might take a certain brain to justify the actions of a criminal
lifestyle, but all in all career criminals exhibit a habitual set of
behaviors involving crime to support themselves and families and provide
entertainment.

I personally know some career criminals and they are very intelligent,
resourceful, and ever adapting. The few I know have only been caught a
few times each. They are involved in burglaries, drug dealings and
prostitution among other crimes but are non-violent people. I do not 
believe them to be psychopaths but very happy with their criminal 
lifestyles. They began their lives of crime in their teenage years and I
would imagine will continue for the rest of their lives.

Gottfredson and Hirschi oversell the age crime curve and the
universality with which offenders discontinue their offending careers.
I am sure their are career criminals who *grow out* of their crime days
and become less violent. For some that I know, the crime tax of their
industry is ever increasing and the profits grow and grow from their
illegal trade. I see these individuals working the same crime jobs into
their retirement and never stopping. Perhaps the criminals have become
wise to law enforcement tactics and reduced their risks of being caught.

I think this is why there exists a steeper drop off in the crime age
curve. Propensity theory is a theory I support because for what ever
reasons people differ in their levels of propensity to commit crimes. 
