Rand & Rennison Accounting for NCVS & UCR Differences
-----------------------------------------------------

Week 1

The UCR and NCVS are two sources of crime data. Living in relatively low
crime area, my family and I have never been selected for the NCVS
survey so I do not have any personal experience with NCVS surveys. 

The differences between the two data sources are similar and different
in certain areas. I find it interesting that UCR data only counts the
most serious crime, but I can see its reasoning. Obviously the police
would focus on a conviction for a murder rather than the breaking and
entering charge the suspect committed during the murder. 

NCVS data relies on the honesty in the survey respondents. I know if I
was victim of abuse and the abuser was present in the household, I would
not report this in my victimization report. NCVS attempts to find a
representative sample of the entire country, therefore there exists a
large potential for sampling error.

If I was looking for the most accurate data, I would use the UCR reports
because they are a compilation of all police precincts in the US. With
electronic means more the data is available and the accuracy of the data
is increased.

UCR and NCVS use different methods and measure different aspects of
crime. At first I believed that these two data sources were competing to
show the same results. But after reading this article and learning more
about the two, I know they are both attempting to show the big picture
of crime symbiotically. This explains why the two sources will differ in
crime rate estimates. Using the Apple and Oranges metaphor, UCR and NCVS
are two different things that cannot be compared as the same type of
object. Thus we must look at each one with its own perspective
independent of the other.
