Fear of Crime Disorder Broken Windows
-------------------------------------
Week 7

The fear of crime is an interesting variable in the amount of crime
that is actually committed. One of my favorite sayings is that
perception is reality. Anything we perceive to be true is in our minds
true, even if it does not agree with the consensus. An example would be
if everyone in the United States awoke tomorrow morning believing that our
economy was back on track and spent and made decisions like it was, the
economy would most likely behave accordingly.

This same idea applies to crime. If everyone wakes up tomorrow believing
that there exists mass amount of crime in their community, people will
act like this is true. Policing would increase, paranoia flourishes, and
crime might actually increase depending on the type of people in the
community.

One way that 'everyone' might get this idea is from the media. The media
has a vast influence on people that is uncanny to any other mediums of
news transfer. I suppose the images and sounds are highly attention
grabbing and captivating. 

Broken window policing can increase the fear of crime. Police presence
in general makes people suspicious. I know when I see three or more
state troopers pulling over a car(s), I immediately think that this
person(s) must be involved with drug trafficking. 

When police use broken window policing, the little crimes and disorders
are taken care of. But is this worth the increase in the fear of crime?

In software development, I use the same idea of broken window policing.
The reasoning for this policy is if a piece of code has a hole in it and
it is not fixed, it will cause entropy to the rest of the software by
its unstable or dangerous implementation. By addressing and fixing these
problems while they are in a incubating state and haven't affected other
modules in the program. 

However, if I am broken window policing my code, if I find many
offenders, I will become suspicious that there are larger problems that
have already slipped through the cracks.
