Social Control Theory & Self-Control Theory
-------------------------------------------
Week 5

Bill McCarthy and Teresa Casey's article "Love, Sex, and Crime:
Adolescent Romantic Relationships and Offending" discusses the idea of
teenage romantic relationships having negative consequences for the
criminal life of the teen. 

I agree that relationships can lead to stress,
disappointed, anger, as well as every other emotion in the book. This
article was trying to justify that teenage relationships share much with
that of adult relationships. I personally don't think they needed to
make this distinction because people regardless of age are in different
stages of their relationship history.

At first one could argue that sex would make people happier and less
depressed. Yes, they physical/biological act of intercourse releases
dopamine, oxytocin, and other endorphins, but the labels of being a
'slut' or a 'player' or the jealousy or anger that results is not
healthy. On numerous occasions males would fight in my high school over
a girl. We are animals so it seems only natural to fight for females.

Social Control is interesting medium because of the community and the
variables it has to play with. The agent of social control can emphasize
certain actions as stigmatizing and provide labels accordingly; such as
slut, player, etc.

Self Control takes the 'blame' to the individual and attempts to explain
the cause of crime through an individual's lack of self control. Pratt
and Cullen discuss gratification and delaying this feeling is what
contributes to high self control.

*"He who makes a beast of himself gets rid of the pain of being a
man."*
-- Dr. Samuel Johnson

Being a fan of HST and a Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas fan boy, I have
heard this quote by Dr. Johnson many times. At different points in my
life it meant many things to me. Looking at this quote today I see it
relates greatly to a mans ability to delay gratification and indulgences
to remain a good man and not a deviant beast. The context of this quote
is drinking and the depression that often becomes a man indulging in
drink. This quote tells us that its easier to be the deviant beast than
the upstanding citizen because it is difficult to resist temptations.
Although we are animals, humans attempt to divide themselves from their
inner beasts and use high levels of self control to lock the beast away. 
