Racial Descrimination of Disproportionate Offending
===================================================

Week 2

Racial discrimination is very prevalent. If not actual discrimination is
occurring, then the perception of it certainly is. Growing up any black
person I talked to always had some paranoid thought that cops/law
enforcement were out to get them. Perhaps this attitude led to behavior
that would attract more cops. The idea "yeah come and get me!" and the
thought of I am going to be suspected of a crime anyways might as well
commit a few. This is certainly not limited to the black community but
seems to arise in minority groups around the world. 

Similar to what we spoke of in class that the southern region of the USA is
historically more violent, I believe where I grew up, the black
communities had a much more belief in family pride and protection than
the predominately white neighborhoods I grew up in. Certain 
neighborhoods would rival against each other due to retaliation
and family pride.

My personal accounts are referring to the gray areas of the justice
system before any courts become involved. Like Blumstein says, "The U.S.
displays distressingly high rates of [Black incarceration]....This is
not so much due to racial discrimination, but to other factors outside
of the criminal justice system. Most experts agree there is no longer
any flat out racial discrimination in courts anymore or very very
little. 

The debate of over representation is interesting because should groups
arrest and incarceration rates be proportional? What if one group is
extremely violent while the others are all pacifists? I do not think
this point is a strong one for arguing racial discrimination exists
because there are many counter examples that prove this theory wrong
like the one I proposed above.

I can also relate to the disproportional pull overs on black men. I know
lots of black teens/men who refuse to drive vehicles because of the
chances of them being pulled over an harassed is much greater. 

I am a white male. I do not have any first hand experiences with police
brutality. Thus I am not sure if the racial profiling is as high as it
was 15 years ago.

From the data in the article, I can easily conclude that blacks are
targeted because thier involvement in crime is higher. Like any casino
game wouldn't you put your money on the most likely outcome?

