Differential Association and Social Learning
--------------------------------------------

Week 6

Both of the articles focus around peers and what kind of influence the
peers might have.

Mark Warr and Mark Stafford focus on the influence of Delinquent peers.
They start the article admitting that by having delinquent friends will
lead to delinquent behavior. I agree that "to Sutherland, then, the
social transmission of delinquency occurs specifically through the
dissemination or transference of attitudes about such conduct through
peer networks" because a person, most of the time, must believe in the
actions they are doing for a long term deviance period to occur. Just
because a child has deviant friends doesn't mean that the child will
experience long term periods of deviance. It could be argued that the
child will most likely try a few deviant acts with said friends, but
unless a transmission of attitudes occurred, the child would not
continue the deviant behavior. 

Haynie and Osgood 'reconsidered' Peers and Delinquency and asked the
general question How do Peers Matter? I particularly am drawn to the
'Peers as a Source of Opportunity for Delinquency' section of this
article. I agree and can personally attest to the fact that peers aid in
the opportunity for delinquency. Whether providing marijuana for the
rest of the group to smoke or helping plan a burglary, peers easily give
each other the opportunities necessary. I can recall (sort of) many
times hanging out at the bus stop after the bus had drop us off and
passing the bowl around and smoking. I wasn't a big smoker and never had
any drugs of my own and probably would have never done it had it been
for my peers providing me the opportunity.

In general, interactions with people have influence in your decision
making. Teenagers are a great case study for this type of peer
interactions because their minds are still mold-able and full of
surprises.  

I believe the same argument can be made that peers can provide positive
opportunities to each other as well. Teenagers especially want to be
popular and one of the cool kids. If the cool kids are eating healthy
and exercising then the other peers will follow suit. Likewise, if the
peers are into deviant behaviors, the peers will follow.

